                      Committee Meeting Agenda
                            3-2-2017

Open Items:

Metrics:

Journey to Excellence -- this is the way to measure troop health
  see reference below 

Upcoming Events:

- OA elections

- Camporee: run a booth, preparation


New Business:

- How to gauge if scout requirement is fulfilled for higher ranks

- Leader succession: scoutmaster

- Future August calendar planning: perhaps a list of activities to pick from
  and then pick and place onto calendar.

- How to make sure we have an inventory of necessary items: all ASMs have a 
  blue Eagle Neckerchief, scout book for late joiner, etc.

- Rank shepherding: Low/High ends Scout/Tenderfoot/Eagle

- Patrol method implementation: membership balance and activities

- General discussion on troop battle rhythm

- Conduct of meetings

- Conduct of PLCs

- Event coordinator guidelines and expectations

- Campout leader guidelines and expectations

- T-Shirt and uniform bank


Reference:

JTE Reference (B-Bronze, S-Silver, G-Gold):

1 Planning and budget -- have a program plan and budget that is regularly 
reviewed by the committee and follows BSA policies for fundraising

B-Annual program plan and budget adopted by troop committee
S-Bronze, plus troop committee meets at least six times during the year
G-Silver plus drop conducts planning meeting including youth leaders

2 Increase in membership or maintain larger than average troop size

B-Have plan that includes recruitment activity and register new members
S-Bronze and either increase by 5% of have > 25 members
G-Silver and increase by 10% or have at least 35 members

3 Retention

B-Reregister 75% of members, or improve over 2014
S-Reregister 80% of members
G-Register 85% of members

4 Webelos-to-Scout transition: Have an effective plan to recruit new Webelos 
to Troop

B-Hold 2 joint activities with Webelos den or a pack
S-Bronze and recruit 2 webelos 
G-Bronze, plus provide 1 den chief and recruit 5 webelos scouts

5 Advancement
B-40% of boy scouts advance one rank or improve over prior year
S-50% advance one rank or improve
G-60% advancement one rank or improve

6 Short Term Camping -- conduct short term camping throughout year

B-4 short term overnight campouts
S-7 short term overnight campouts
G-9 short term overnight campouts

7 Long-term camping: The troop participates in a long-term camp.

B-The troop participates in a long-term camp.
S-60% of Scouts attend a long-term camp.
G-70% of Scouts attend a long-term camp.

8 Service projects: The troop participates in service projects, with one
benefiting your chartered organization.

B-Participate in three service projects and enter the hours on the JTE website.
S-Participate in four service projects and enter the hours on the JTE website.
G-Participate in five service projects and enter the hours on the JTE website.

9 Patrol method: The troop uses the patrol method.

B-The troop has patrols, and each has a patrol leader. There is an SPL if 
more than one patrol. The PLC meets at least four times a year. The troop 
holds patrol leader training.
S-PLC meets at least six times a year, including an
annual planning meeting.  Troop conducts patrol leade rtraining
G-PLC meets at least 10 times a year, including an annual planning meeting, 
and one Scout attends NYLT.

10 Leadership and family engagement

B-Scoutmaster, ASM, and Committee with at least 3 members
S-Bronze, plus holds 2 courts of honor
G-Bronze plus 3 courts of honor

11 Trained Leadership

B-Scoutmaster and ASMS have completed training and have YPT
S-Bronze, plus SM and 60% of ASMS have completed position training
G-Silver plus 2/3rds of Troop Committee have completed Troop
Committee Challenge and 1 has completed woodbadge

